# Worksheet 3.7

Applications of Quadratics

Problem 1: The height of a ball $t$ seconds after it is thrown is modelled by the function $h(t) = 2 + 20t - 4.9t^2$, where $h$ is the height of the ball in meters.
a. Find the height of the ball 3 seconds after it is thrown.
b. Find the times at which the ball is above a height of 6 meters.
c. Find the maximum height of the ball and when it occurs.

---
Problem 2: A bus transports people from an airport to a city center. It transports 800 people a day at a cost 5.50 per person. Research has shown that for every decrease of 0.05 in fare, 10 more people will ride the bus. Suppose there have been $x$ decreases of 0.005 below the inital cost of the 5.50.
a. Find an expression, in terms of $x$, for the bus fare.
b. Find an expression, in terms of $x$, for the number of people who ride the bus in a day.
c. Find an expression, in terms of $x$, for the daily revenue generated by people riding the bus.
d. Find the number of fare decreases that result in a revenue of 4500.
e. Find an appropriate domain for this context.
f. Determine the fare that will yield the maximum number of passengers.

---
Problem 3: A rectangle has length $x$ m and a perimeter of 310 m.
a. Find the function for the area of the rectangle in term of $x$.
b. Use the function to find the dimensions of the rectangle with the maximum possible area.

---
Problem 4: Determine if it is possible to bend a 12cm length of wire to form the perpendicular sides of a right-angled triangle with area 20 cm^2.

---
Problem 5: Two integers differ by 12 and the sum of their squares is 74. Find the integers.

---
Problem 6: A gardener has 40m of fencing to enclose a rectangular garden plot, where one side is an existing brick wall. Find the dimensions of the garden of maximum area.

---
Problem 7: An open-square based container is made by cutting 4cm square pieces out of a piece of tinplate. If the volume of the container is 120 cm^3, find the size of the original piece of tinplate.

---
Problem 8: For what value(s) of $k$ would the graph of $y=x^2 - 2k + k$ never touch or cross the $x$ - axis?


